Good to see you again.
You will now learn about
neural machine translation,
and you'll see what
the architecture
of this neural
network looks like.
You will also learn which words
the neural network
is focusing on
when translating from
one language to another.
Let's formalize this task.
To get started on
this week's material,
I'll introduce you to
neural machine
translation along with
the model that was traditionally
used for its implementation.
The seq2seq model.
Then, I'll talk about some
of this models shortcomings
and the solution as they
lead into the model
that you'll be using in
this week's assignments.
Exciting stuff.
Let's go.
In neural machine translation,
you're using an
encoder and a decoder
to translate from one
language to another.
For example, you
could translate,
it's time for tea from English
to French, C'est l'heure du the.
To do this, you could use a
machine translation system
that has LSTMs for both
encoding and decoding.
The traditional seq2seq
model was introduced
by Google in 2014
and it was a revelation
at the time.
Basically, it works by
taking one sequence of items
such as words and its
output, another sequence.
The way this is
done is by mapping
variable length sequences
to a fixed length memory,
which in machine translation,
encodes the overall
meaning of sentences.
For example, you can have
a text of length that varies
and you can encode
it into a vector
or fixed dimension
like 300, for example.
This feature is what's made
this model a powerhouse
for machine translation.
Additionally, the
inputs and outputs
don't need to have
matching lengths,
which is a desirable feature
when translating texts.
Then you might recall the
vanishing and exploding
gradients problems from
earlier in the specialization.
In seq2seq model,
LSTMs and GRUs are typically
used to avoid these problems.
As I mentioned, in
a seq2seq model,
you have an encoder
and a decoder.
The encoder takes
word tokens as input,
and it returns its final
hidden states as outputs.
This hidden state is
used by the decoder to
generate the translated sentence
in the target language.
Before moving on,
let's look closer at the
encoder and decoder.
The encoder typically consists
of an embedding layer
and an LSTM module with
one or more layers.
The embedding layer
transforms words tokenized
first into a vector for
input to the LSTM module.
At each step in the
input sequence,
the LSTM module receives inputs
from the embedding layer,
as well as the hidden states
from the previous step.
The encoder returns the hidden
states of the final step,
shown here as h_4.
This final hidden
state has information
from the whole sentence
and it encodes its
overall meaning.
The decoder is constructed
similarly with an embedding
layer and an LSTM layer.
You use the output
word of a step
as the input word
for the next step.
You also pass the LSTM hidden
state to the next step.
You start the input sequence
where there is start of sequence
token denoted as SOS here.
The first step, C'est,
as the most probable next word.
Then you use C'est as the
input word for the next step
and repeat to generate
the rest of the sentence
l'heure du the.
One major limitation of the
traditional seq2seq model
is what's referred to as
the information bottleneck.
Since seq2seq uses a
fixed length memory
for the hidden states,
long sequences
become problematic.
This is due to the fact
that in traditional
seq2seq models,
only a fixed amount of
information can be passed
from the encoder to
the decoder no matter
how much information is
contained in the input sequence.
The power of seq2seq,
which allows for inputs and
outputs to be different sizes,
becomes not effective when
the input sequence is long.
The result is lower
model performance,
a sequence size increases
and that's no good.
The issue with having one fixed
size encoder hidden states
is that it struggles to compress
longer sequences and it
ends up throttling itself
and punishing the decoder
who only wants to make
a good prediction.
One workaround is to use
the encoder hidden states
for each word instead of trying
to smash it all into
one big vector.
But this model would have flaws
with memory and contexts.
How could you build a time
and memory efficient model
that predicts accurately
from a long sequence?
This becomes possible if the
model has a way to select
and focus on the most important
words at each time step.
You can think of this as giving
the model a new layer to
process this information,
which in the slide
is called attention.
If you provide the information
specific to each input word,
you can give the
model a way to focus
it's attention in
the right place
at each step of the
decoding process.
That is good progress.
Up next, you'll get
a conceptual idea of
what this new layer
is doing and why.
You now have an overview of
neural machine translation,
and you have a rough idea
of what attention
is looking like.
You know which words the
model is focusing on
when translating from one
language to another language.